Welcome!

The  purpose of this tutorial is to give you a brief introduction
on how to use spip and make sure that your installation is  work-
ing properly.  It is assumed that at this point you have followed
the directions in the README and have  properly  installed  spip.
Typing  "spip --help" will return a short list of all program op-
tions and associated arguments.  A detailed explanation  of  pro-
gram  options,  associated  arguments, and output can be found in
the man pages and accompanying pdf.

For this tutorial we will be using the files in the ./examples di-
rectory.   It should contain the files locpars, salmon.demog, and
salmon.gtyp amongst others.  Make sure that your current  working
directory  is  the  examples  directory.  For your first run type
"spip --command-file salmon.demog".  You should see a lot of  in-
formation  printed  to  stdout (see man or pdf for explanation of
output).  If you compare this to the salmon.demog.out  file  they
should  look  very  similar.  (They will differ only because they
have probably used different starting seeds for the random number
generator.)

The  above  example is simple, but it lacks any interesting geno-
type data.  To keep inforamtion more organized demographic infor-
mation  is  stored in files with the ".demog" extension and geno-
type data in files with the ".gtyp" extension.  You don't have to
give  the  files these extensions, but it is a useful convention.
This time type "spip --command-file  salmon.demog  --command-file
salmon.gtyp".   That should give you the same output as last time
plus genotype data.    Compare your output  with  that  found  in
the salmon.demog_with_gtyp.out file.  At this point your genotype
results may differ from our example results, again,  because  you
have  probably  used a different random seed.   The fact that our
genotype results are different is of little concern,  the  impor-
tant part is that the layout of the results is the same.

That's it!  The overall format for using spip is "spip --command-
file NAME_OF_FILE [options] ".  It should be noted that [options]
can  be specified both within the command file and at the command
prompt.  In fact, you don't even need to put the options  into  a
command  file,  you  could just write them all out on the command
line (but that gets a little lengthy  and  cumbersome!)   In  the
/examples  directory  you  will find other demographies and geno-
types (with accompanying reference outputs) to experiment with.

Enjoy!

eric & kevin
